I was born into a climbing family and I
was brought to the rocks since I was a
baby
so I was just playing garden Eve the
rocks in the dirt in the dust
I was just watching my parents climb and
it was somehow natural that I wanted to
climb as well
Adam Andra is one of the world's
greatest rock climbers specializing in
sport climbing he's the first athlete in
history to become world champion in two
different disciplines one of which is
bouldering bouldering is climbing on
either artificial walls or rocks and all
you need is just a crash pad choke back
climbing shoes and power and
determination to get to the top you can
help yourself so much with the the
appropriate technique it's not
necessarily about how many pull-ups you
can do or if you can do one-arm pull-up
on one finger I can't do it for example
but I can still climb pretty hard
because I can really find the balance
with my body with my feet with my hands
how to get into the position where I can
use the least power
the problem why the boulder is hard can
be either that the move is very far away
on good holds or the hand holds are very
very tiny or did the hand holds are just
in a very weird positions like this or
like this and you have to find your way
how to like make the holes a little
better
moving your your one finger one
millimeter too much left or right can be
a reason why you fall the ability to
understand and utilize the right kind of
hold for the terrain being climbed is
one of the most important aspects of the
sport of bouldering the skill for a
climber is knowing what hold to use when
this is a Crim it's a cream that it's
tiny but at the same time it's quite
positive it has a nice edge so you
usually take it by crimping which means
like your knuckles go up and here it
goes like this this this hand hold is a
pinch so it it is not as Tiny as a crimp
and you hold it just by pinching or this
could be for example a sloper so it's a
large hold but it's very very nasty
because it's very open it's very rounded
and you have to use totally different
force than holding a crimp I would say
it's very important to be able to
imagine yourself climbing a boulder
beforehand because my technique is to
really try to imagine as if I always
already climbing on it and then when I
get on the wall it doesn't feel like
first go anymore it feels like I had
already climbed the route I workout
every move out of my forte move circuit
and I have to go through the route maybe
two or three times to be really sure
that I've got it in my mind and as I
started climbing I can really focus only
on climbing
it's kind of a challenge sometimes to
memorize everything but with more
practice it's not such a big deal really
in bouldering competitions there are
four problems each round ranking is
decided upon how many Boulder problems
you did and how many attempts if you are
not precise enough while climbing past
you can easily make some mistake you can
slip or something like this very
important is the combination of being
precise and fast
that is something that is very very hard
it's either one one side or the other
one and it's very hard to find the
balance I just said a goal and a work
hard in the gym to train and I finally
when I go out of the competition if
everything happens it's just so
beautiful